---
title: Release Notes
nav_order: 2
---

# Version 3.6.16

🔗 [Download](https://www.psr-inc.com/app/link/?t=d&f=nwsddp-3.6.16-setup.exe)

## Fixes

* Updates Thermal plant minimum generation file format for Sddp 17.2, fixing a bug that this constraint could be ignored.


# Version 3.6.15

## Updates

* Adds interconnection modification tolerance option. This new tolerance, with default value of 2 MW, controls how many interconnection modifications are created. If two consecutive modification values are below this specified tolerance, no modification are created on Sddp database.

* Increases minimum and maximum number of convergence iterations from 8 to 12.


# Version 3.6.13

## Fixes

* Fix hydroplants association with equivalent reservoirs (REE).


# Version 3.6.12

## Fixes

* Update hydroplants modifications file format.

* Adds registry modification file (MDC) for September 2022 PMO. This MDC explicitly disables Candonga hydroplant.

## New features

* The conversion process will ignore the registry modification file (MDC) if the option to use it is left unchecked. Previous versions would use any residual/existing MDC file in the input case folder.


# Version 3.6.11

## Fixes

* Fix hydroplants association with equivalent reservoirs (REE).

* Fix penalty fixed cost units when using the option to consider Newave's penalty values.

  * When the penalty cost entered in GHMIN in penalid.dat is 0 R$/MWh, it will be considered automatic calculation on Sddp.


# Version 3.6.10

## New features

* Adds registry modification file (MDC) for PDE 2031.


# Version 3.6.9

## New features

* Adds registry modification file (MDC) for August 2022 PMO. This case has an additional load in the North region not considered in previous MDCs.

## Fixes

* Fix a bug where incomplete error messages were shown.


# Version 3.6.8

## New features

* The `index.dat` file generated by the converter has been updated. Basically, this is the SDDP file that contains the definition of the output list to be generated by the model at the end of execution.


# Version 3.6.7

## Fixes

* Warns when there is a modification of a non-existing plant instead of
  showing error and interrupting the conversion.


# Version 3.6.6

## Fixes

* Registers components required during installation in order to run the program.


# Version 3.6.5

## New features

* Support for the hydrological tendency file related to the gauging stations (vazpast file). It should be enabled through the new “Convert hydrological tendency data by station, if available” option.

* Hydrological tendency by Energy Equivalent Reservoir (Reservatório de Energia Equivalente - REE) is not supported (eafpast file).

## Fixes

* Correction in the format of the interconnection registry data.


# Version 3.6.4

## New features

* Adds to the registry modification file format (MDC) a field for the curtailment cost of renewables. The default value is R$ 100.00.

* Option enabled by default: use Newave penalty data.

## Fixes

* Minimum thermal generation is no longer modeled as a generation constraint. Reverts what has been introduced in version 3.5.30.
* Adds interconnection and interconnection sum modification for the first month of the study.


# Version 3.6.3

## Fixes

* Corrects the directions of the interconnection capacities in the modification data.

# Version 3.6.2

## Fixes

* Fixes rounding error to prevent the historical unavailability factor from being bigger than the forced one.
* Updates the name of the minimum generation constraints of plants with the name of the plant.

# Version 3.6.1

## Fixes

* Correction in the hydro complementary data that was preventing simulatios with SDDP version 17.
* The default execution options have been updated to be the ones related to SDDP 17.

# Version 3.6.0

## New features

* Data format update to SDDP 17.

# Version 3.5.30

## New features

* Minimum thermal generation represented as generation constraint (SDDP 17).

## Fixes

* Correction in the registry and modification data of thermal plants.

# Version 3.5.29

## Fixes

* Correction in writing of the generation constraints for more than one system.
* Adds negative estimated reservoir area warning (PMO 08/2021).

# Version 3.5.28

## Fixes

* Correction in the conversion of Energy Equivalent Reservoir (Reservatório de Energia Equivalente - REE) to SDDP's Joint Reservoir representation.
* Correction in the minimum generation data to consider programmed unavailability modification.

# Version 3.5.27

## New features

* Converts the Energy Equivalent Reservoirs (Reservatórios de Energia Equivalentes - REE) to the SDDP model as Joint Reservoirs.
* Adds new SDDP 17 compliant option to convert the REE risk aversion curve data into Joint Reservoir Alert Energy Constraint beind defined as % RHS.
  * Activate the `Converter CAR em restricoes de conjunto de reservatorios` ("Convert RAC to Joint Reservoir Constraints") to use this feature which will convert the Risk Aversion Curves into Joint Reservoir Constraints.

# Version 3.5.26

## Fixes

* Correction in the reading of the initial storage by subsystems.
* Correction in penalty treatment when the Energy Equivalent Reservoir (Reservatório de Energia Equivalente - REE) does not exist.

# Version 3.5.25

## Fixes

* Ignores non-existent interconnections in interconnection grouping data.
* Enlarges dimensions of the NwSDDP options screen.

# Version 3.5.24

## New features

* Option to consider Newave's minimum generation constraint penalty.

## Fixes

* Correction in reading Newave's penalty data.


# Version 3.5.23

## New features

* Option to use the maximum inflow from the history in the definition of the `Total Outflow x Tailwater Elevation` table (enabled by default).

## Fixes

* Improvement in the calculation of the table Total Outflow x Tailwater Elevation, avoiding decreasing values of elevation.
* Correction in the treatment of the minimum generation constraint.

# Version 3.5.22

## New features

* `VERTMN` Block of the MDC to define minimum spillage for hydroelectric plants (SDDP 16).
* MDC for PMO 2021-02 without using fictitious plants to model spilling.

## Fixes

* Correction in the treatment of Angra's minimum generation constraint (PMO 2021-01).

# Version 3.5.21

## Fixes

* Correction in reading the Newave thermal class modification data (PMO 2021-01).

# Version 3.5.20

## Fixes

* Correction of the calculation of the minimum generation of thermal plants, where negative values close to zero could appear due to truncation errors.

# Version 3.5.19

## Fixes

* Correction of the maximum value of the `Elevation x Tailwater` table for plants with influence of spillage on the tailwater elevation.

# Version 3.5.18

## New features

* Printing, in log, of the list of plants classified as run-of-river.

## Fixes

* Correction in the `Total Outflow x Tailwater Elevation` table when a plant is influenced by spillage on the tailwater elevation. In this version, the historical maximum inflow is also considered for the calculation of the points in the table when the plant is influenced by spillage on the tailwater elevation.
* Reduction of the tolerance between minimum/maximum elevation to consider a valid `Elevation x Storage` table.

# Version 3.5.17

## Fixes

* Correction in the classification of run-of-river plants with the Newave criteria.


# Version 3.5.16

## Fixes

* Bug fix in reading of the Elevation x Tailwater polynomials of hydroelectric plants introduced in version 3.5.15.
* Bug fix that always enabled Newave criteria for run-of-river hydropower plants classification.

# Version 3.5.15

## New features

* Option (default) to classify hydropower plants as run-of-river using the Newave criteria.
* MDC `CONFIG` block to redefine parameters used in the conversion process. In this version, `TOL_FIO_DAGUA` is available to configure the difference between maximum and minimum storage to classify a plant as a run-of-river (alternative to the previous option).

# Version 3.5.14

## New features

* Renewable technology type field in the `USINA_NAO_SIMULADA` block (plant not individually simulated block) of the MDC.

# Version 3.5.13

## Fixes

* Compatibility of renewable data related to SDDP 16.
* Correction in the action of the buttons `Procurar` (Search) of data folder and MDC file.

# Version 3.5.12

## New features

* New modification files with the conversion of plants that are not individually simulated into renewable sources for the PMO from May/20 and PDE 29.

## Fixes

* Correction in the treatment of systems in the application of the `USINA_NAO_SIMULADA` block (plant not individually simulated block) in PDE 29.

# Version 3.5.11

## New features

* Possibility of representing `plants not individually simulated` of Newave ("Usinas não simuladas") as Renewable Sources in SDDP using the `USINA_NAO_SIMULADA` block in the modification file. Please check the manual for more informations.

## Fixes

* Treatment of the initial and final stages of the structural CVUs ("CVUs estruturais" in portuguese) of thermoelectric plants.
* Update of the correction in the rounding of Minimum Generation of Thermal Power Plants value: using double precision for the verification and truncation of the minimum generation value.

# Version 3.5.10

## Fixes

* Correction in the conversion of the data of modifications of the sum of interconnection: it considers information of the final month to open the limits of the not informed steps.
* Corrects data reading of small plants and the application of the depth of load blocks.

# Version 3.5.9

## New features

* GUI update, adds buttons like `Mostrar no Explorer` ("Show in Explorer") and `Procurar...` ("Search...") to show Newave/SDDP data folder in Windows Explorer and to select/create a different folder with the system screen respectively. Minor interface fixes.
* Possibility of renaming plants and systems through the code `NOME` ("name") in the registration modification files.  Please check the manual for more informations.

## Fixes

* Correction in the rounding of Minimum Generation of Thermal Plants value, leading to exceed the installed power of the plant in a certain stage/block.


# Version 3.5.8

## Fixes

* Correction in the conversion of interconnection modifications data: reduces the tolerance of the difference between two consecutive months to consider the modification.

# Version 3.5.7

## Fixes

* Corrects treatment of the additional load in the total demand of a system.

# Version 3.5.6

## Fixes

* Reading the configuration of the number of years of scheduled maintenance to be considered when reading the thermal plant maintenance file (0, 1 or 2).

# Version 3.5.5

## New features

* Option to consider zero scheduled unavailability in the first calendar year for maintenance-free plants (disabled by default).
* Editing the outputs selected by default of a converted case through the `index.dat` file (`res` folder in the program's installation directory).

## Fixes

* Adjusts an inflexible portion of the thermal generation when it exceeds the remaining installed power during maintenance.

# Version 3.5.4

## Fixes

* Bug fix in the option to automatically rename elements with duplicate names when the name has 12 characters filled.
* Bug fix when the option `Vertimento controlável em todas as usinas` ("Controllable spillage in all plants") is disabled.

# Version 3.5.3

## Fixes

* Fixed average block duration rounding that occasionally resulted in simulation error messages.
* Remove unused parameters from `sddp.dat`.
* Correction in the maximum power of plants that are not individually simulated, starting to consider the highest power value between the system's registry data and the data defined per load block.
* Default option for compatibility with OptGen: `Atualizar cadastro além dos arquivos de modificação` (“Update registration in addition to modification files”).


# Version 3.5.2

## Fixes

* Generation of names for small plants.
* Removes persistence from the `vazoesC.dat` reading configuration.
* Removes a factor of 0.995 from the converted GTMIN/minimum thermal generation value.

# Version 3.5.1

## New features

* Treatment of non-controllable and partially controllable spillage options.
* Reading of the Minimum Thermal Generation `GTMIN.DAT` file.
* Reading of the Minimum Hydroelectric Generation `GHMIN.DAT` file.
* Reading of the Electrical Constraints of Equivalent Energy Reservoir `RE.DAT` file.
* Representation of more than one small plant per subsystem.
* Reading the VMINP and CMONT mnemonics from `MODIF.DAT`.
* Reading of scenario resampling options and monthly or annual correlation matrix.

## Fixes

* Ignores preventive rationing option.
* Default acronym for North (NO) and Northeast (NE) systems.
* Correction in the automatic acronym for abbreviated names (eg: T. PIRES = TP).
* Improved filling of standby storage data (VMAXT).


# Version 3.5

## New features

* Added option to correct negative incrementals in history.

## Fixes

* Correction in data reading of interconnections grouping defined for more than 3 load blocks.
* Changing the number of sum of interconnections modifications.
* Reading of thermal expansion data for dates prior to the start of the study.


# Version 3.4.4

## New features

* Reading the `REE.DAT` file to consider equivalent energy reservoirs. With that, the converter starts to correctly interpret the `CONFHD.DAT` file.
* Inclusion of a new MDC file for PMO cases from April/2016.

# Version 3.4.3

## New features

* Change to inform the nominal project values in the registration data for hydroelectric and thermoelectric plants in expansion. This change has no impact on the results and aims to facilitate the integration of cases from the Brazilian system with the OptGen expansion planning model, developed by PSR.
* Extension in the reading of the MDC file to allow resetting the defluence penalty keeping the limits informed in Newave.
* Inclusion of a new MDC file for PMO cases from October/2015.
* New option for selecting the number of forward scenarios in SDDP: 200 (default) or 1200 scenarios.

## Fixes

* Correction in reading error of `ARQUIVOS.DAT` file due to the inclusion of new equivalent reservoir files and electrical constraints.

# Version 3.4.2

## New features

* Flexibility in reading data related to modifying the registration of hydroelectric plants to accept the definition of chronological minimum inflow data for the years before (“PRE”) and after (“POS”) the study.

# Version 3.4.1

## New features

* The maximum number of interconnection aggregation modifications has been increased.
* New registry modification file (MDC) for the 2023 Decennial Expansion Plan (Plano Decenal de Expansão - PDE 2023).

# Version 3.4

## New features

* Flexibility in reading the generation data of small plants to allow interpretation of misaligned codes.
* The conversion of the time-variable Forced Outage Equivalent Rate ("Taxa Equivalente de Indisponibilidade Forçada - TEIF" in portuguese) data, defined in the `EXPT.DAT` file through the `TEIFT` parameter, was included.


# Version 3.3

## New features

* Fixed an error in converting fuel data to zero defined cost fuels for the entire study horizon. These fuels were not converted to SDDP and the database was inconsistent.

# Version 3.2

## New features

* The conversion of the time-varying minimum defluence (minimum flow) data, associated with the `VAZMINT` parameter of the `MODIF.DAT` file has been included.

# Version 3.1

## New features

* The conversion of the parameters associated with the CVaR aversion risk methodology has been included
* The following default parameters for SDDP execution were changed:
  * Number of series changed from 80 to 200
  * Maximum number of iterations changed from 7 to 8
  * Minimum number of iterations equal to maximum number of iterations for rounds with CVaR
  * Penalty for violation of minimum defluence changed from 0.1 BRL/hm3 to 40,000 BRL/hm3.
  * New option to use absolute seed set as default.
  * Option related the 33013 seed (`SEED 33013`) has been disabled.

# Version 3.0

## New features

* Changes related to the details of waterfalls through the external file for modification of the NEWAVE register ( `NWSDDP.MDC` file):
  * A new functionality was added to the interface that allows the management of different `NWSDDP.MDC` files (which may contain differences to adapt to different NEWAVE cases). These files will be part of the NwSddp converter installation and the file to be used can be selected at the time of data conversion. In addition, a functionality was also created to download MDC files that will be published in the future by PSR.
  * Some additional loads defined in the Newave data should not be added to the demand because they are, for example, sub-engines already considered in the individualized model of the SDDP and, if they were considered, there would be a double counting in the demand of the corresponding systems. A new field has been included that, if informed, obligatorily defines for all additional loads whether or not it should be considered in the conversion process.
  * A field was included to define chronological minimum defluence data, which allows for detailed modeling of the Belo Monte and Belo Monte Complementar plants.
  * Extension of the reading of the modification data of the hydroelectric plants register to consider the field “Average Tailwater”.
* New option that indicates that the `VAZOESC.DAT` file (inflows from the DECOMP model) should be considered instead of the `VAZOES.DAT` file (inflows from the NEWAVE model).
* The writing of fuel data considering the most current SDDP format was implemented. The initial step of converting these data indicated by the SDDP graphical interface will no longer be necessary when opening a case newly created by the converter.
* Verification of duplicate small power plant data was included.
* A verification to define penalty for minimum operating storage constraints as default SDDP, in cases where the accumulated production factor of downstream plants is less than zero (pumps), was included.
* Changed formats of generated files and order of elements in order to ensure compatibility with the format used by the SDDP graphical interface when saving data.

# Version 2.8

## New features

* Reading and conversion of additional load data was implemented. The demand of the additional loads is incorporated into the demand of the corresponding system.
* The need for a hydrological station file (`POSTOS.DAT`) was removed. If there is any inconsistency in the file or it does not exist, the converter will use the name of the associated hydroelectric plant as the name of the station.
* Added an option to automatically correct duplicate names for systems, hydroelectric plants, thermal plants and hydrological stations. If this option is disabled (default option) the program displays a message that allows the user to enter new names for the elements.
* The converter identifies pairs of hydroelectric plants located in different systems and associated with the same hydrological station. For each pair, the unpowered plant is automatically considered as a ficticious plant and is removed from the configuration. In addition, the real power plant is connected to the cascade of the ficticious power plant's system. If both plants do not have motorization, the converter will try to identify the fictitious plant through the presence of the 'FIC' marker in its name. If this marker is found, the converter will ask the user to confirm that the plant is truly fictitious.
* Added protection for reading total energy market data in inconsistent format.

# Version 2.7

## New features

* The extension of the Risk Aversion Curve (Curva de Aversão a Risco - CAR) reading was implemented with the option “Penalty in the minimum storage”. When this option is selected, the 'CAR' is not represented by system and the minimum operative storage data are penalized based on the CAR cost indicated for each system and the plant's average accumulated production factor.
* There is a limitation of Newave, which requires that real systems must have at least one hydroelectric plant in operation at all stages of the study. Due to this, EPE (Energy Planning Company) made, in the 2019 Decennial Plan, a special model for the Belo Monte, Tapajós and others plants, which includes a fictitious machine with a power equal to 1 MW and maximum turbine power equal to 1 m3/s entering the setup start. An option that aims to try to identify these plants and correct the configuration in the creation of the SDDP database was created. This option can be selected by the user in the “Options” screen in the interface.
* A verification on the consistency between the power of machines added in the hydroelectric expansion file (`EXPH.DAT`) and the hydroelectric plant registration file (`HIDR.DAT`) was added.
* The maximum turbining outflow of hydroelectric plants considered for the calculation of the table Total Outflow x Tailwater Elevation is now based on the highest turbine value over the entire study horizon.

## Fixes

* The printing format of the interconnection coefficients in the constraints of sum of interconnection was fixed.
* It was fixed an error in the initialization of the number of machines of existing hydroelectric plants with expansion, which caused, in some cases, the number of machines, the total power and the maximum turbining outflow of the plant to be above the correct value.
* It was fixed an error in printing of the inflow history file.

# Version 2.6

## New features

* As of this version, the NwSddp converter considers the conversion of Newave version 14 data as the default option. An option has been included for converting data in the format of previous versions, which can be selected through the `Opções > Opções de execução` (“Options > Execution Options”) screen in the interface of NwSddp. The difference between the versions consists in the fact that the data from versions prior to 14 admit data of “time-variable deficit cost”, whose file name is indicated in record 31 of the `arquivos.dat` file. In turn, data from versions after 14 indicate in the same record the data file of "grouping of interconnections".
* Conversion of interconnections aggregation data has been included. These data, present in Newave from version 14 onwards, are converted to SDDP and represented as constraints of sum of interconnections flows.
* The maximum total outflow point for creating the `Total Outflow x Tailwater Elevation` table is now obtained as a function of the maximum inflow in the history.
* The `Area` (constant) field, used by SDDP to calculate the evaporation of run-of-river plants, is now also calculated for the other plants.

## Fixes

* The treatment for reading hydroelectric expansion data was introduced because an error occurred in the NwSddp if the hydroelectric expansion data had an inconsistent format. As of this version, a message is informed indicating the inconsistent record in case of error.
